# CloudFront SSL/TLS and SNI - HOL-133

### Description

This template configures a CloudFront distribution with multiple alternate domains having different parent domains. For example, the alternate domain names could be `site.example.com` and `web.webmaster.net`. You can see that the parent domains (example.com and webmaster.net) of the two subdomains are different.  
This ability to use different parent domain on the same CloudFront distribution is made possible by _Server Name Indication (SNI)_.  

### Operation

**Before deployment**

1. Request for an ACM certificate for two domain names in the `us-east-1` region

```bash
$ aws acm request-certificate --domain-name '*.goodguys.click' --subject-alternative-names '*.iclinic.net.za' --validation-method DNS --region us-east-1
```
Make sure the parent domains are different, in this case I have `goodguys.click` and `iclinic.net.za`.   
Copy the `CertificateArn` from the command output.

2. Describe the certificate

```bash
$ aws acm describe-certificate --certificate-arn <certificate-arn> --region us-east-1
```

3. From the output, get the _Name_ and _Type_ of the ResourceRecord for each DomainName and create a CNAME record on your DNS setup.

For example, consider the except

```json
"DomainValidationOptions": [
  {
    "DomainName": "*.goodguys.click",
    "ValidationDomain": "*.goodguys.click",
    "ValidationStatus": "SUCCESS",
    "ResourceRecord": {
        "Name": "_cahi9f8ec9f7pq3aa1c69af1d0f76c99.goodguys.click.",
        "Type": "CNAME",
        "Value": "_b4752rt505e2155d81b29af190dc7c90.zfyfvmchrl.acm-validations.aws."
    }
  }
  ...
]
```

For this, your CNAME record will have the host name `_cahi9f8ec9f7pq3aa1c69af1d0f76c99` and value `_b4752rt505e2155d81b29af190dc7c90.zfyfvmchrl.acm-validations.aws.` for the goodguys.click DNS records.

4. Wait for a few minutes for the Certificate to be issues before you deploy.
5. Copy your certificate ARN and update the `CertificateArn` parameter value in `parameters.json`

**Deployment**

Lint the templates

```bash
$ cfn-lint CloudFrontSsl.yaml
```

Deploy the `CloudFrontSsl` stack

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --template-file CloudFrontSsl.yaml --stack-name CloudFrontSsl --parameter-overrides file://private-parameters.json
```

**After deployment**

1. Copy the website files to the S3 origin.

```bash
$ aws s3 sync static-website s3://source-bucket-16-04
```

2. Get the` DistDomainName` from the stack outputs

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name CloudFrontSsl --query "Stacks[0].Outputs" --no-cli-pager
```

3. Add CNAME record to you DNS record setup for the two domains. Each CNS record should have a host name of `ssl-demo` and value should be the `DistDomainName` value obtainted from the stack outputs.

**Testing**

1. Vist the `DistDomainName` using your browser and you should see the index.html page
2. Visit the first alternate domain `ssl-demo.goodguys.click` and you should see the same page
3. Visit the second alternate domain `ssl-demo.iclinic.net.za` and you should see the same page

**Cleanup**  
Empty the buckets

```bash
$ aws s3 rm s3://source-bucket-16-04 --recursive
```

To delete the stacks

```bash
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name CloudFrontSsl
```

### Learn More
__Server Name Indication (SNI)__  
SNI allows you to have multiple domain names (e.g example.com, webmaster.net) on a the share the same IP address.  

Note that SNI  works with browser/clients released after 2010, otherwise a dedicated IP is needed.  

__SNI and CloudFront__  
In the case of a CloudFront Distribution, SNI allows the Distribution to have multiple alternate domain name or aliases with each having a different certificate on the same Distribution.

__SNI and Application Load Balancer__  
In the case of an Application Load Balancer,
the, SNI allows a single Listener to have multiple certificates configured on it.
