# IAM Identity Center in Action - HOL-249

### Description

This configuration set up Permisson Set, Groups and a User in the IAM Identity Center.  
The User is assigned to the two groups and inherits the permission sets and Account associated with the groups/permission sets.

### Operation

**Before deployment**

1. Create AWS organization if you have not already done so.
2. Enable IAM Identity Center.  
   Go to the IAM Identity Center Console, Click on the _Enable_ button.
3. Get the ARN of the _IAM Identity Center (AWS SSO)_ instance .

```bash
$ aws sso-admin list-instances --profile sovtechchucks > output-1.json
```

Copy the a `InstanceArn` and `IdentityStoreId` and use them to update the `parameters.json` file.

4. Get the Account ID of one of your member account of your AWS Organization.  
   Use the AccountId to update the `TargetAccountId` in `parameters.json` file.  
   I am using my `DevelopmentAccount` which was created in `section-13-deployment/hol-228-shared-subnet`.
5. Make sure you AWS CLI is upto date or at least _v2.27.x_ for when you run the `identitystore create-user` command later.

**Deployment**

Lint the templates

```bash
$ cfn-lint IdentityCenter.yaml
```

Deploy the stack

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --template-file IdentityCenter.yaml --stack-name IdentityCenter --parameter-overrides file://private-parameters.json --profile sovtechchucks
```

**After deployment**

1. Get the `ManagementGroupId` and `AnalystGroupId` from the stack outputs

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name IdentityCenter --query "Stacks[0].Outputs" --no-cli-pager  --profile sovtechchucks > output-2.json
```

2. CloudFormation does not support creating an IAM Identity Center User.
   So lets create the IAM Identity Center User using AWS CLI

```bash
$ aws identitystore  create-user --identity-store-id d-xxxxxx --user-name john11 \
  --name "Formatted=string,FamilyName=Travolta,GivenName=John" \
  --emails "Value=john.travolta@yahoo.com,Type=string,Primary=True" \
  --display-name "John Travolta" \
  --profile sovtechchucks > output-3.json
```

Copy the `UserId` from the command response.

3. Assign the User to the AdminGroup group

```bash
$ aws identitystore create-group-membership --identity-store-id d-xxxxx --group-id xxxx-xxxx --member-id UserId=xxxx-xxxxx --profile sovtechchucks > output-4.json
```

4. Assign the User to AnalystGroup (optional)

```bash
$ aws identitystore create-group-membership --identity-store-id d-xxxxx --group-id xxxx-xxxx --member-id UserId=xxxx-xxxxx --profile sovtechchucks > output-5.json
```

5. Go to the IAM Identity Center Console > Users, Select the User
   Click on the _Send email verification link_ button at the top of the User's page

   The user must go to the inbox of the email address provided to accept the invitation and they will be able to login.

6. While on the User's Page in the IAM Identity Center Console,
   you can also Reset the User's Password and send them Password Reset Instruction Email.
7. The User can then Login, change their password and setup their 2FA device which will be required on their first Login.
8. When the User finally Login, their assinged Accounts will be Listed and Under each account, their assigned permissions set will be listed.
9. You can customize you Access Portal User.
   Go to Identity Console > Settings > Identity Source Tab > Action > Customize Access Portal URL.

**Testing**

**Cleanup**  
To delete the stack

```bash
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name IdentityCenter
```
