# Create a Read Replica - HOL-190

### Description

This configurations build on `hol-189` which creates a RDS instance running a MySQL database.  
Here we create a _Read Replica_ of the DB instance in another region.

After the Read Replica is created we demonstrate how the Read Replica can be promoted to a Primary instance in the case of a disaster recovery effort.  
After the _Read Replica_ is promoted, it then becomes an independent writable instance, available for read and write operation.

### Operation

**Before deployment**

**Deployment**

Lint the templates

```bash
$ cfn-lint RdsDb.yaml
$ cfn-lint ReadReplica.yaml
```

1. Deploy the `RdsDb` stack to `eu-west-2` region

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --template-file RdsDb.yaml --stack-name RdsDb  --parameter-overrides file://secret-parameters.json --region eu-west-2
```

2. Get the `EndpointAddress` and `DbInstanceArn` from the `RdsDb` stack outputs

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name RdsDb --query "Stacks[0].Outputs" --no-cli-pager --region eu-west-2
```

3. Use the `DbInstanceArn` output to update the `SourceInstanceArn` parameter in the `parameters-2.json` file

4. Deploy the `ReadReplica` stack to `eu-west-3` region

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --template-file ReadReplica.yaml --stack-name ReadReplica  --parameter-overrides file://parameters-2.json --region eu-west-3
```

**After deployment**

1. Get the `EndpointAddress` from the `ReadReplica` stack outputs

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name ReadReplica --query "Stacks[0].Outputs" --no-cli-pager --region eu-west-3
```

**Testing**

1. Use the `DbUsername` and `DbPassword` parameter to login to the Primary DB instance from the `RdsDb` stack using a Database client e.g MySQL WorkBranch
2. Use the same `DbUsername` and `DbPassword` parameter to login to the Replica DB instance from the `ReadReplica` stack using the same Database client.
3. Update a database table in the Primary DB instance and query the same table in the Read Replica instance to see if the change is replicated.
4. Confirm that you cannot write to the Replica instance by attemping an update of any table - it should fail.
5. Promote the `ReadReplica` to become a Primary instance.

"If you remove the `SourceDBInstanceIdentifier` property from your template and then update your stack, AWS CloudFormation promotes the read replica to a standalone DB instance."

"If you specify the `UseLatestRestorableTime` or `RestoreTime` properties in conjunction with the `SourceDBInstanceIdentifier` property, RDS restores the DB instance to the requested point in time, thereby creating a new DB instance."

6. After promoting the `ReadReplica` to become a Primary instance. Try again to update a table in the `ReadReplica`. It should work now because the Instance is now writable.

7. Update the a Table in th original Primary instance in `RdsDb` and confirm that the `ReadReplica` data stays the same this time.

**Cleanup**

To delete the stacks

```bash
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name ReadReplica --region eu-west-3
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name RdsDb --region eu-west-2
```
