# Share a subnet Across Accounts - HOL-228

### Description

This configuration uses the `OrgAndAccount` stack which template was first written in `section-5-organization/hol-71-org-and-account` to create and Organization and an account.

The template is further added to by `section-5-organization/hol-72-scp` to include an organization unit into the organization.

Here we have updated the `OrgAndAccount` by adding another account `DevelopmentAccount` to the Organization.

We also create a second template `SharedSubnet` which is used to demonstrate the sharing of a public subnet between two accounts within the same organization.  
The public Subnet will be shared between the management account and the `DevelopmentAccount`.

### Operation

**Before deployment**

Enable Sharing in Organization.  
 Go the to _Resource Access Manager_ Console > Settings > check the _Enable sharing with AWS Organization_ check box, click the _Save settings_ button.

**Deployment**

Lint the templates

```bash
$ cfn-lint OrdAndAccount.yaml
$ cfn-lint SharedSubnet.yaml
$ cfn-lint Development.yaml
```

1. Check if the `OrgAndAccount` template is in sync with the deployed stack

```bash
$  aws cloudformation create-change-set --stack-name OrgAndAccount --change-set-name ChangeSet1  --template-body file://OrgAndAccount.yaml --parameters file://private-parameters.json --profile sovtechchucks
```

Go to the CloudFormation Console, select the `OrgAndAccount` stack > Change Sets tab, check out the diff.

Execute the ChangeSet if the impending changes are acceptable.

2. Get the `DevelopmentAccountRoleArn` from the `OrgAndAccount` stack output

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name OrgAndAccount --query "Stacks[0].Outputs" --no-cli-pager --profile sovtechchucks
```

This Role must be assumed by the Management account's admin user to be able to deploy resources to the `Development` member account.

3. Setup a profile for the Management account profile to assume the `DevelopmentAccount` role.

Add the following to your `~/.aws/config` file

```json
[profile development-account] # Member account under sovtechchucks
role_arn = arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/OrganizationAccountAccessRole
region = eu-west-2
source_profile = sovtechchucks
```

Note that `123456789` will be your original `Development` memeber account's AccountId.

4. Create KeyPairs for the Management and `Development` member account

```bash
# For the management account
$ aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name MainEuWest2Key --query 'KeyMaterial' --output text > main-euwest2-key.pem --profile sovtechchucks
$ chmod 400 main-euwest2-key.pem

# For the memeber account
$ aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name DevEuWest2Key --query 'KeyMaterial' --output text > dev-euwest2-key.pem --profile development-account
$ chmod 400 dev-euwest2-key.pem
```

5. Deploy the `SharedSubnet` stack in the management account

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --template-file SharedSubnet.yaml --stack-name SharedSubnet --profile sovtechchucks
```

When you go to the _Resource Access Manager (RAM)_ Console > Shared Resource, you will see the SharedSubnet listed.

When you Switch to the `Development` member account and go to the VPC Console > Subnets, you will see the SharedSubnet listed.

Also the SharedSubnet's VPC can be accessed from the member account.

6. Get the `VpcId`, `SharedSubnetId`, `SharedSubnetCidrBlock`, `MainPublicIp` and `MainPrivateIp` from the `SharedSubnet` stack outputs

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name SharedSubnet --query 'Stacks[0].Outputs' --no-cli-page --profile sovtechchucks > output-1.json
```

Use the `VpcId`, `SharedSubnetId` and `SharedSubnetCidrBlock` to update the `parameter.json` or `private-parameters.json` file.

7. Deploy the `Development` stack in the `Development` member account

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --template-file Development.yaml --stack-name Development --parameter-overrides file://private-parameters.json --profile development-account
```

**After deployment**  
Get the `DevPublicIp` and `DevPrivateIp` from the `Development` stack outputs

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks  --stack-name Development --query 'Stacks[0].Outputs' --no-cli-page --profile development-account
```

**Testing**

1. SSH into the EC2 instance in the Management account

```bash
$ ssh -i main-euwest2-key.pem ec2-user@35.179.148.27
```

2. Ping the PrivateIp of the instance in the `Development` member account

```bash
$ ping 10.0.79.72
```

You should get a response.

3. SSH into the EC2 instance in the `Development` member account
4. Ping the PrivateIp of the instance in management account.  
   You should get a response.

**Cleanup**  
 To delete the stacks

```bash
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name Development --profile development-account
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name SharedSubnet --profile sovtechchucks
```
