# Launch Docker Containers on AWS Fargate - HOL-161

### Description

This configuration creates an ECS Service which runs two instances of a Container application using the `nginx` docker image from DockerHub.

### Operation

**Before deployment**

**Deployment**

Lint the template

```bash
$ cfn-lint LaunchContainer.yaml
```

Deploy the stack

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --template-file LaunchContainer.yaml --stack-name LaunchContainer  --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM --parameter-overrides file://private-parameters.json
```

**After deployment**

**Testing**  
To get the Public IP of a running task

1. Go to the ECS Console > Clusters, select the cluster
2. Click on Tasks tab, click one of the Tasks (in Running state),
3. Scroll down to the Configuration section, copy the Public IP, or click to open in a new browser tab.
4. Your Nginx Website should be running there.
5. We set the `DesiredCount` of the ECS Service to 2, so that there is a minimum of two running Tasks at all times. Each task will have it's own public IP.

**Cleanup**  
Make sure to stop any Stand Alone task first

```bash
$ aws ecs stop-task --cluster DemoCluster --task 34abc38c1b8c49b18d998ef1ec1312c0
```

To delete the stacks

```bash
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name LaunchContainer
```

### Learn more

**CPU and Memory for Fargate**  
The value of CPU that you choose for you task definition determines your range of valid values for the memory parameter. To learn more see [Task Size](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task_definition_parameters.html#task_size)

**Stand Alone Task**  
You can Launch a stand alone task in your cluster using your task definition.  
This is often used to run application for a short time and terminate it, for example, a batch job or a test web application.  
Stand alone task do not run under an ECS service.  
Think of Stand Alone task like lauching a single EC2 instances, versus having an ASG manage your EC2 instances.
In ECS, the ECS service can run your tasks for you just like the ASG does for EC2 instances.

Stand alone tasks can only be run from ECS Console, API or AWS CLI but NOT CloudFormation.  
To run a stand alone task using AWS CLI:

```bash
$ aws ecs run-task --cluster DemoCluster --task-definition <task-def-arn> --network-configuration file://network-config.json > new-task.json
```

Replace the `<task-def-arn>` with the`TaskDefinitionArn` from the stack output.

After the creation of the stand alone task, we copy the `taskArn` from the result output.  
The last segment of the `taskArn` hold the `taskId` which we can use the access the task details in the ECS console.

Go the the ECS Console > Clusters, select the cluster > Tasks tab, find the task using the taskId on the Task colume of the Taks table.  
Note that from the three Tasks in the table, two are listed to be _Started by_ _ecs-svc_ and the stand alone one will have nothing under it's _Started by_ colume.

**Useful CLI Commands**  
List tasks in your cluster

```bash
$ aws ecs list-tasks --cluster DemoCluster
```

Get task details of a task

```bash
aws ecs describe-tasks --cluster DemoCluster --tasks <task-id>
```

Stop a running Task

```bash
$ aws ecs stop-task --cluster DemoCluster --task <task-id>
```
