# Simple HTTP API - HOL-181

### Description

This configuration creates a HTTP API which is integrated with a Lambda Function. A S3 website is also created.  
The Lambda function carries out basic arithmetic - addition, substraction, multiplication and division.  
The S3 website deploys a HTML page that calls the API endpoint to carry out the desired arithmetic operation.

### Operation

**Before deployment**

**Deployment**

Lint the template

```bash
$ cfn-lint HttpApi.yaml
```

Deploy the stack

```bash
$ aws cloudformation deploy --template-file HttpApi.yaml --stack-name HttpApi  --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM
```

**After deployment**

1. Get the `WebsiteUrl` and `ApiEndpoint` from the stack outputs

```bash
$ aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name HttpApi --query "Stacks[0].Outputs" --no-cli-pager
```

2. Use the `ApiEndpoint` to update the `<YOUR-API-ENDPOINT>` secton of the `apiUrl` variable in `website/index.html`

3. Copy the `website` html files to the website bucket

```bash
$ aws s3 sync website s3://website-bucket-08-05
```

**Testing**

1. Test the Lambda Function  
   Login to the Lambda Console and create a _Test Event_ using this _Event JSON_

```json
{
  "queryStringParameters": {
    "operation": "add",
    "num1": 10,
    "num2": 10
  }
}
```

Run the test event and you should get the following result

```json
{
  "statusCode": 200,
  "body": "The result is 20.0"
}
```

Alternatively, you may invoke the Lambda using AWS CLI

```bash
$ aws lambda invoke --function-name SimpleFunc08 --payload file://add-operation.json --cli-binary-format raw-in-base64-out output.json
```

Check the `output.json` file for the result.

2. Test the HTTP API  
   Make a CURL request to the API endpoint calculator route

```bash
curl "https://95raclaj9j.execute-api.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/prod/calculator?operation=add&num1=10&num2=10"
```

This should return the result `"The result is 20.0"% `.

If there are is an error, check the API Stage's AccessLogs' LogGroup `/aws/apigateway/SimpleHttpApi/access-logs` in the CloudWatch Console.

3. Test the website  
   Use the `WebsiteUrl` to visit the website on a browser.  
   Use the control input and carry out any arithmetic operation.

**Cleanup**  
Empty the S3 bucket

```bash
$ aws s3 rm s3://website-bucket-08-05 --recursive
```

To delete the stack

```bash
$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name HttpApi
```
